python_crash_course_13_common_functions_and_methods

FUNCTIONS

Python len() Function

  - The len() function returns the number of items in an object.
  - When the object is a string, the len() function returns the number of characters in the string.
    - Example:
      - numbers = [4,3,3,7]
        - len(numbers)
          - Output: 4

Python max() Function

  - The max() function returns the item with the highest value, or the item with the highest value in an iterable.
  - If the values are strings, an alphabetically comparison is done.
    - Example:
      - numbers = [4,3,3,7]
        - max(numbers)
          - Output: 7 
      - Example:
      - names = ["Butterscotch", "Pancake", "Zebra"]
        - max(names)
          - Output: 'Zebra'
      *NOTE*: int and string types cannot BOTH be in one list and will return an error

Python sorted() Function

  - The sorted() function returns a sorted list of the specified iterable object.
  - You can specify ascending or descending order. Strings are sorted alphabetically, and numbers are sorted numerically.
    - Example: 
      - names = ["Butterscotch", "Pancake", "Zebra"]
        - sorted(names)
          - Output: ['Butterscotch', 'Pancake', 'Zebra']

      *NOTE*: You cannot sort a list that contains BOTH string values AND numeric values.

METHODS

Python String join() Method

  - The join() method takes all items in an iterable and joins them into one string.
  - A string must be specified as the separator.
    - Example:
      - '$'.join(["money","power","respect"])
        - Output: 'money$power$respect'

Python String format() Method

  - The format() method formats the specified value(s) and inserts them inside the string's placeholder.
  - The placeholder is defined using curly brackets: {}. Read more about the placeholders in the Placeholder section below.
  - The format() method returns the formatted string.
    - Example:
      - print('TLC is {}, {}, and {}'.format('sexy','crazy','cool'))
        - Output: TLC is sexy, crazy, and cool

Python List append() Method

  - The append() method appends an element to the end of the list.
    - Example:
      - jobs = ['Mercedes', 'Rivian', 'VW']
        - jobs.append('Waymo')
          - print(jobs)
            - Output: ['Mercedes', 'Rivian', 'VW', 'Waymo']



